Matthew Story
--
ISTA project #2- write up
--


Applications are of way of my making our lives easier. As I have contemplated the potential projects that I could work on for this class, my main objective has always been to create something that could take a problem in life and making easier or more simplistic to deal with. After having spent five years in the military, like many soldiers, I have developed a passion for fitness. I have mentored many people who wanted to get in shape and the most common obstacle seems to be the fact that there is so much information and analysis that goes into designing a balanced fitness regimen. As an aspiring programmer, I realized that there is a potential for a software application to organize this information and display it to a user in a way that would allow them to maintain a fit lifestyle. My idea is to create a database application that would accept inputs regarding a persons age, weight , height, and gender, as well as the type of work outs they are doing, their duration, and their nutritional information. My app would then display imbalances in their habits and offer recommendations as far as workouts and meal plans.
  The requirements for this application are fairly robust as they will require a database linked to a gui, as well as a decent amount of input from the user. The backbone of this application would be a database containing a person attributed as well as the workouts they are performing on a regular basis. However the ideal way of providing these inputs would be a gui, so I must find a way to link a gui to a database. The goal of this app is to make a person aware of their imbalances as well as to make nutritional recommendations. An example of this is practice might be something along the lines of inputting your workout for the day and the app then displacing the metrics of that workout vs yesterday’s workout and recommending that you eat a certain amount of calories and macronutrients in order to optimize your recovery and strength gains. 
This application will also require a fair amount of research because I order for it be effective, ill have to study fitness literature to make sure that my app is giving proper recommendations. Fortunately, there is quite a bit of knowledge on these subjects available on the public domain. Additionally, I will also have to do quite a bit of studying regarding the programming specs needed in order to implement this idea. As far as testing, I would do the majority of that myself as I mentioned, I am a fitness enthusiast and would be able to test the app for its intended purpose in my everyday life.
This application is a significant undertaking, in fact it might actually take years in order for this app to see the light of day. I’m also aware that many fitness trackers and application are already available. However I think there is a potential for an application to take the vast amount of data that goes into improving ones health and consolidate it. Allowing its users to spend less time worrying about what they need to do and thus make exercising a less daunting task, especially for beginners.
