-- Matthew Story
-- 25 February 2018

For the Ista class project I have been considering several different versions of an "organizational system". My plan is to choose a subject that I am passionate about and compile as much information as I can into a database that would organize the raw data and make it more accessible to myself and others that might also be interested in the topic.
As a sports fan, the first thing I considered was creating an organizational system of one of my favorite sports teams. Sports are a great fit for this project because they produce vast amounts of data that can be analyzed and organized. For example, I was considering a database for an NFL team that would contain a player directory, a calendar of off-season events such as the draft, training camp, etc., as well as a schedule for the 2018 season. I would include a photo album containing headshots of the players and miscellaneous photos from the 2017 season. My database would then provide links to articles from various news outlets that cover the team.
My second idea was to make a cookbook of sorts, with recipes and all their ingredients, instructions and nutritional value. I would incorporate a photo of each dish and a link to a step by step instructional video.
Lastly, I had another idea of an NFL themed database that would focus on the NFL draft. There is a massive amount of data and analysis leading up to this event and frankly, it can be a lot to take in. Surely there is a way make this data more accessible to a casual fan. I would start by creating a directory of the top 100 prospects. I could then break that down further into to the top prospects at each position including all relevant information such height, weight, college attended, and attributes like 40-yard dash time, shuttle time, bench press reps, vertical jump and broad jump. My main source would be the NFL scouting combine which begins Friday, March 2. This project would be quite robust, but my enthusiasm for the subject would make it an interesting experience.
The amount of data available at our fingertips these days can be overwhelming at times. That’s why I believe databases are a crucial part of modern society. The ultimate goal of my project is to create an efficient and informative catalogue of subject matter that I enjoy, and others might find useful. 
